Update EBNF for admin statements and add checksum details (#17617)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-checksum-table.md

# ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE

The `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE` statement calculates a CRC64 checksum for the data and indexes of a table.

The [checksum](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md#checksum) is calculated over the table data and properties like the `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but a different table_id will get different checksums.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

This statement is used to calculate a checksum that can be compared with the checksum that [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) has calculated locally. This statement is usually executed by [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md).

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> This statement is used to calculate a checksum that can be compared with the checksum that TiDB Lightning has calculated locally. This statement is usually executed by TiDB Lightning.

Reviewer: @D3Hunter, would you please check whether `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE` is also executed by [`IMPORT INTO`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/sql-statement-import-into) before and after the import by default? Thanks.

Reviewer 2: yes, `import-into` will execute it after import

lightning doesn't use it normally

Reviewer: @dveeden PTAL, thanks

Author: Addressed in ad55fe277a18677cb495bff7b889bdfb649c3427

# ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE

The `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE` statement calculates a CRC64 checksum for the data and indexes of a table.

<CustomContent platform="tidb">

> The [checksum](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md#checksum) is calculated based on table data and properties such as `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but a different `table_id` will get different checksums.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [checksum](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md#checksum) is calculated based on table data and properties such as `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but different `table_id` values will get different checksums.
```

> This statement is used to calculate a checksum that can be compared with the checksum that [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) has calculated locally. This statement is usually executed by [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). The same method is also used by the [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) statement.

Reviewer: it seems that DM also executes this statement if `checksum-physical` is at its default value "required"

ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/task-configuration-file-full#task-configuration-file-template-advanced

> The [checksum](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md#checksum) is calculated over the table data and properties like the `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but a different `table_id` will get different checksums.
> 
> This statement is used to calculate a checksum that can be compared with the checksum that [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md) has calculated locally. This statement is usually executed by [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md). The same method is also used by the [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Checksum](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-glossary.md#checksum) is calculated based on table data and properties such as `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but a different `table_id` will get different checksums.

After importing a table, [TiDB Lightning](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-overview.md), [TiDB Data Migration](/dm/dm-overview.md), and [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) execute `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE <table>` by default to validate data integrity.
```

</CustomContent>

<CustomContent platform="tidb-cloud">

> The [checksum](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-glossary#checksum) is calculated over the table data and properties like the `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but a different `table_id` will get different checksums.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [checksum](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tidb-lightning-glossary#checksum) is calculated over the table data and properties like the `table_id`. This means that two tables with the same data but different `table_id` values will get different checksums.
```

> This statement is used to calculate a checksum that can be compared with the checksum that TiDB Lightning has calculated locally. This statement is usually executed by TiDB Lightning. The same method is also used by the [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After importing a table using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md), `ADMIN CHECKSUM TABLE <table>` is executed by default to validate data integrity.
```
